README.md, before:

# AlcoholConsumption

## Brief description

Research about the global alcohol consumption related with facts such as nutrition, poverty or scholar marks.

## Domain of interest - Alcohol Consumption

### Interest in the field

The interest in the field arises from the recent increase in alcohol consumption, more specifically in young people. It would be appealing to research what are being the consequences of this fact in other domains such as education and health, as well as if that increase is due facts as poverty or age.

### Examples of related data driven projects

#### [Project 1: How common is alcohol and drug dependency across the world?](https://ourworldindata.org/alcohol-and-drug-dependency)

This project from the website _Our World in Data_ presents the trends in Alcohol Consumption and Substance Use in countries all over the world, with data from 1990 to 2016. The aim is to give a better understanding of the global prevalence of substance use disorders.

Some of the conclusions are:

- Across most countries, the number of alcohol use disorders is higher than other drug use disorders.
- Substance use disorders are more common among men than women.

#### [Project 2]

#### [Project 3]

### Data driven research questions

- **Question 1:**
- **Question 2:**
- **Question 3:**

## Finding Data

In this section, you will identify and download at least 3 sources of data related to your domain of interest described above (into a folder you create called data/). You won't be required to use all of these sources, but it will give you practice discovering data. If your data is made available through a Web API, you don't need to download it. For each source of data, provide the following information:

- Where did you download the data (e.g., a web URL)?
- How was the data collected or generated? Make sure to explain who collected the data (not necessarily the same people that host the -data), and who or what the data is about?
- How many observations (rows) are in your data?
- How many features (columns) are in the data?
- What questions (from above) can be answered using the data in this dataset?

Commit message:

Added first data source with explanation.

README.md, after:

# AlcoholConsumption

![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/angeligareta/AlcoholConsumption?style=for-the-badge)

## Brief description

Research about the global alcohol consumption related with facts such as nutrition, poverty or scholar marks.

## Domain of interest - Alcohol Consumption

### Interest in the field

The interest in the field arises from the recent increase in alcohol consumption, more specifically in young people. It would be appealing to research what are being the consequences of this fact in other domains such as education and health, as well as if that increase is due to facts like the economical situation or Human Development Index of the countries.

### Examples of related data driven projects

#### Project 1: [How common is alcohol and drug dependency across the world?](https://ourworldindata.org/alcohol-and-drug-dependency)

This project from the website _Our World in Data_ presents the trends in Alcohol Consumption and Substance Use in countries all over the world, with data from 1990 to 2016. The aim is to give a better understanding of the global prevalence of substance use disorders.

Some of the conclusions are:

- Across most countries, the number of alcohol use disorders is higher than other drug use disorders.
- Substance use disorders are more common among men than women.

#### [Project 2]

#### [Project 3]

### Data driven research questions

- **Question 1:** How is the alcohol consumption related with the economical situation a country? Does it get affected by the per capita income indicators and the development status of the countries?
- **Question 2:**
- **Question 3:**

## Data Sources

### Data Source 1: [Life Expectancy](https://www.kaggle.com/augustus0498/life-expectancy-who)

- **Data source:** The source of this data is the Open Dataset platform Kaggle, it is public and available to use. Downloaded data path: [/data/life-expectancy/](./data/life-expectancy/)
- **Data collection:** The data was collected from WHO (World Health Organization) and United Nations website with the support of Deeksha Russell and Duan Wang. This dataset is a merge of the WHO dataset, which is related to life expectancy and health factors for 193 countires and the corresponding economic data collected from the United Nations website.
- **Dataset description:** The data is about how several factors such as demographic, mortality or economical can affect life expectancy. Among the observed variables some are Country, Status (developed or developing), Life Expectancy, Alcohol Consumption per capita, HIV, GDP and so on.
- **Observations number:** The final merged dataset consists of 22 features and 2938 rows.
- **Questions that could be answered in our domain:** As our goal is to relate factors with alcohol consumption, this dataset could be very useful to associate how alcohol relates with adult mortality, GDP, years of schooling and life expectancy. For this reason this dataset could be helpful to answer the first research question.

### [Data Source 2]

### [Data Source 3]
